At this point, you've seen quite a lot,
you've seen classes, interfaces, taught
level functions, extension function,
singletons, so I thought it would be a
good point to discuss imports. I mean how
do you import all this stuff when you
want to use it? First of all, let's talk a
bit about packages in Kotlin. I've been
using a package like structure in the
projects we've created, but I didn't have
to do that, just as class named don't
have to match the name of the file
they're in, packages don't have to match
the directory structure. So let's go
ahead and demonstrate that, I'm going to
create a new file within our academy dot
learn programming communications package.
So, I'll say new Kotlin file or class and
let's just call this file imports.
Now, you'll notice that Kotlin added or
rather the IDE added a package statement
academy dot learn programming dot
communications, so right now it's
following the practice of having a
package name that matches the directory
structure and in fact that's the
recommended practice, even though Kotlin
doesn't enforce that there be a
directory structure that matches the
package, it's the recommended practice.
So, I'd recommend that you create packages
if it's business as usual,
do it the Java and the Kotlin
recommended way, but to demonstrate that
you don't have to match the directory
structure, let's change the package of
this class to academy dot learn
programming dot imports, you'll see that
we don't get any error messages at all
and let's add a main method to this file.
And just add on an old print line that
says my package doesn't match and if we
run this, we'll see that it runs fine,
don't get any errors, so even though the
directory structure doesn't match the
package name, that's fine.
Kotlin won't complain, compiler won't
complain. Now if I come up here to this
file and I right-click and I go to show
and explorer it'll probably be called
something different in the Mac,
we can see that it's in directory source
academy learn programming communications.
And so, we definitely have a file that's
in a package that doesn't match the
directory structure and everything is
fine, but I'm going to change it back to
academy learn programming dot
communications, because I want to do it
the way that it's recommended that we do
it, so we'll change it back. So I just
wanted to show you this, so that you know
this about packages, but again I want to
reiterate the recommended practice is to
do it as Java does it and to make the
package structure match the directory
structure. So basically just keep it
business as usual, but know that if you
don't have to. Ok, so now let's move on to
imports, you import classes and
interfaces, as you do in Java so we're
not going to spend any time on the
basics, but how about top-level functions?
This is something that we don't have in Java.
Well, you import top-level functions in
the same way, so if we go back to company
communications, I've already typed up a
top-level function in here and all it
does it says top-level function and
we'll insert the string value whatever
string is passed to the function, so we
want to know use this function from
another package, so let's go ahead and
create another package. So in the source
folder here, I'll go new package and I'll
say academy dot learn programming dot and we'll just
call it another package and then let's
create a file in here, new Kotlin file
and I'll just call it another file and
we'll add a main function. Okay, so now we
want to call the top-level function in
our company communications file, so let's
go ahead and just use it, we'll just say
top-level and you can see that right
away, IntelliJ knows about it. So I'll say
yes that's what I want to use and boom,
IntelliJ just added an import statement
for it, because I have the auto import
feature turned on in the IDE which means
that if an import isn't ambiguous,
in other word,
since the IDE can figure out what import
to use, because there aren't multiple
classes or functions with the same name,
then it'll just go ahead and add the
import statement for me. So what it's
done here is it's added an import
statement academy dot learn programming
dot communications dot top-level so that
is the import statement for this
function here, so as you can see when you
want to import a top-level function,
you just go ahead and do it the same way
you would a class except you specify the
name of the function and that lets you
import an individual function. So now,
can just go ahead and use it, so I'll say
top-level hello from another file.
So let's hit run and we get top-level
function hello from another file and
that's being printed from the function
in company communications. Okay, so
obviously, importing and using functions
within a project in another package is
very straightforward. So how about
modules, we mentioned modules when we
were talking about access modifiers, what
if we want it to use this function from
another module? Well, we're going to have
to create another module to do that, so
let's go ahead and do it. So to do that,
we'll go to file new but instead of
choosing project, we're going to select
module and then it's going to look
fairly similar to what we do when we
create a project, so we have Kotlin on
the left, Kotlin on the right and we'll
call this module name another module,
so you'll see that it's been added here and
it's bold and if we expand the node it
has a source folder. So let's create a
package in here, so we'll say new package
and we'll call it academy
learn programming and dot another module
package, let's say and now we want a file
that does the same thing that another
file does, except this time it's doing
it'll do it from a different module,
so let's create a new Kotlin file or class
and we'll call it another
module file, let's say. And then we're
just going to do the same thing, so we're
going to have a main function and we'll
say top level and you'll see that we
can't see it.
This module cannot see this function and
you'll remember that when we did the
exact same thing from this file which
belongs to the same module as company
communications, we didn't have this
problem, we could just see it right away,
but we can't see it from here.
Now, because everything is public and final
by default, we should be able to see it
from here and the reason that we can't
is because we haven't added the company
communications module as a dependency
for this module. So if we go ahead and
add company communications as a
dependency we'll be able to see the top
level function and in fact we'll be able
to see anything that's public in the
company communications module. So let's
go ahead and make company communications
a dependency of another module. So to do
that, we're going to come to another
module and right-click on it and we're
going to come down here to open module
settings, you can also use f4 and now
you'll see that in the middle panel,
can see the two modules that are in this
project, we want to make sure that
another module is selected and then over
here, we're going to click the green plus
button and we're going to select module
dependency, because we want to add a
module as a dependency and when we do so,
we'll see choose modules and we only
have one other module in this project.
So the only one that we can choose is
company communication, so we'll go ahead
and choose that and now company
communications is a dependency of
another module, so when we build we try
to build another module, we'll see that
it'll pull in company communications as
well. So we'll click ok, let me delete
that and type it again and you'll see
now that it's imported it right here.
So now, we can see in another modules file
which is in this module here, we can see top level
and we can go ahead and say hello from
another module and if we run this,
we'll now see top level function hello from
another module. So when you want to use
something from another module, the import
statement looks exactly the same, but you
have to remember that you need to deal
with dependencies and make sure that
when you build the stuff that a module
needs is going to be pulled in. Now,
obviously, you can only import top level
functions like this because they're not
associated with instances, you know you
can't import individual class member
functions, that wouldn't make sense if
you want to use a class member function
you got to import the entire class. Now,
you import type aliases and extension
functions in the same way, you'll
remember the type alias lets you refer
to a type by a different name and you
declare those at the top of a file,
so they're also top level and you import
them exactly the same way and it's the
same thing with extension functions,
extension functions are top level
functions and you import them the same
way, just by name. So how about object
declarations, let's go back and we have
an object declaration here object
company communications. So let's try to
use it and it doesn't really matter if
we try to use it from another file or
another module file, so let's try another
file and we'll say company
communications intelliJ is going to
suggest that to us and the moment that I
select it, we get an import statement
added by IntelliJ. So now I can just go
ahead and use it, get copyright line and
if I run from here and of course I
should print this out, otherwise this is
pretty useless and running can't see
anything, let's do this again. And now
we'll see the print line from the top
level function and also from we get our
copyright line. So object declarations
handled the same way as any other
top-level declaration, it's just handled
like any regular old class. Okay, so what
about enums? We created an enum right here
called department. Can we use the enum
from another file? Well, you can, in fact
you can import individual enums, but
usually, you'll want to import the entire
class, but for the sake of demonstration,
let's just use and import the IT enum
from the department enum in the company
communication. So we can go import
academy dot learn programming dot
communications and we're just going to
say department and then we're going to
say we just want the IT enum and we
don't get any errors here and then we
can use the IT num now we can say print
line IT dot get department info and
if we run, we'll see that we get the
information for the IT department, but
let's go ahead and import the entire
class because that's what you're
normally going to do. So, of course you
just go dot star here and then you can
use them all, so we can say print line
sales dot get department info etc and
that's normally what you're going to do.
Okay, now remember we mentioned type
aliases and when we cover it those,
we saw that it's a way of renaming a type.
Well, you can also rename your imports
and you can do that using the as keyword.
Now, why would you want to do this?
Well, this can be really helpful when you're
importing from multiple sources and to
imports are going to have the same name.
So, for example if you're using more than
one third-party library and let's say
you're using some type of networking
object and they both have a class name
network, then you could rename one of
those imports, so that you don't have to
fully qualify the name in your code,
when, you know so that compiler can
distinguish between which network class
you're actually trying to use. So let's
use as with company communication, so we
can see how this works. So let's say that
instead of wanting to refer to company
communications as company communications,
here we want to refer to it as comm,
maybe we just don't like typing. So all
we have to do is say as comm. Now you'll
notice as soon as we did that,
IntelliJ change this line, because when we
change that, it didn't recognize company
communications. See, it doesn't recognize
that anymore, because we've said in the
code, we're going to refer to company
communications as comm. So when we say,
company communications here, the compiler
is like I have no clue what that is.
So what we have to do now is change this to
comm and now everything's working,
no errors and in our code we now have to
refer to company communications as comm.
Let's run and we'll see that we get our
copyright line, no problem. Now you can
use as with functions as well so let's
use as with top-level and we'll
say we want to refer to the top level
function, as I don't know tp and once
again, as soon as we do that, compiler no
longer recognizes top level, so we'd have
to change that to tp. Now, when we looked
at extension functions, I said that you
have to import them, if you want to use
them outside the file, where they're
defined. So what I've done is backing
company communications, I copied in our
upper first and last that we wrote when
we were looking at extension functions.
And now I'm going to try to use this in
another module, so I'm going to go to
another module file and I'm going to say
print line a string to work with I'm
going to go outside here and say dot and
we'll get all the suggestions for this.
And let's say when we go upper first and
last and it can see it and the moment I
select it, we get an import statement
added. So it'll say import academy dot
learn programming upper first and last.
Now, I just did this in another module
for variety, we could have done it from
here and the same thing would happen,
so, we could have said print line you know
some string dot and if I go upper and I
select, it I'm going to get upper first
and last added here so once again to import
extension functions which are top-level
members, you just import the individual
function by name.
Now let's try out the as function with
this, because this is quite long so let's
say as I don't know ufal, we probably
wouldn't do this because it makes the
function name really cryptic. So
of course, as before now the compiler says I
don't know what this is and we'll change
it to ufal and now it works. Now as I
said, you wouldn't want to do this
because it would make this too cryptic,
so be careful when you're using as that
you're not making things concise, but
unreadable, there's a fine line you have
to walk, so make sure that your codes
still readable. Now obviously you can't
use as with wild card imports, like you
know we couldn't do something like let's
take this out and put star and then say
as that's obviously not going to work,
because you can't rename all imported
items to one thing, I mean that's obvious
you would have figured that out on your
own, but I thought I'd mention it anyway.
Okay, that's it for this video I'll see you
in the next one.